The contactless infrared thermal scanner is a model which is able to scan the body temperature of a person and records its picture as well.

Overview:-
With the infrared sensor it will be able to record the body temperature of a person and as the device is camera enabled, the image of a
person is captured with his/her temperature denoted. Now, the images will be taken with the temperature recorded and will be sent to the
servers and so that it will be easier to identify the people who've had high temperature. Due to the present pandemic situation,
the students who have high temperature are needed to be tracked down and with the images which they already have it
will be easy for the hostel admin to track down these students.

Hardware Requirements:-
• Raspberry Pi • MLX96014- IR Temperature Sensor • HDMI 7 Inch LCD Capacitive Touchscreen 10point Touch 800 X 480 • Raspberry Pi camera. • Power Adapter/ Power Bank

Set-Up Steps:-
1. Gather all the hardware mentioned above.
2. Now connect the HDMI 7 inch LCD capacitive touchscreen 10point touch 800 x 480 display to the Raspberry Pi.
3. Connect the MLX96014 sensor with Raspberry pi using the GPIO pins of it.
4. Now connect the Raspberry Pi camera.
5. After the hardware is set up turn on the raspberry pi and the 7 inch LCD display will start working.
6. By using the PyMLX90614 0.0.3 which is a Python library for MLX90614 infrared temperature sensors, using smbus2.
Compatible with Python 2 and 3. Now to test if the temperature sensor is working or not first, ensure the device is
available on the I2C bus: Here by running the command we can see the at which address the I2C bus is connected. Within Python, the device can be used like this:
from smbus2 import SMBus
from mlx90614 import MLX90614
bus = SMBus(1)
sensor = MLX90614(bus, address=0x5A)
print sensor.get_amb_temp()
print sensor.get_obj_temp()
bus.close()
7. By running this code, the temperature sensor starts working and it will display the ambient and the object temperature.
8. Now after developing the program to denote the text on the picture and running the final program it will turn the
Camera on and the body temperature will be visible. Now the student’s image and the her/his body temperature will be shown.
9. Now by pressing Enter on the keyboard the image will be taken and will be stored in the Output folder in local storage.

Working:-
• The prototype consists of a Raspberry Pi, MLX96014- Thermal Scanner, 7-inch LCD display and a camera to click the image- RasPi Camera.
• As the hardware is set up, the device runs on Linux OS by running the program that has been developed, the camera will be enabled and the temperature sensor as well.
The sensor here takes a continuous data and it will be able to show the body temperature denoted on the screen. • As the camera is enabled, the student will be able to
see his/her face on the 7-inch LCD display screen along with the temperature denoted at the bottom of the display. • As the student’s face is kept near to the temperature
sensor the body temperature will be displayed. Now the picture has to be clicked and that picture will consist of the student’s face and her/his body temperature.
• This picture will be sent to the server database.

Advantages of using this:-
The thermal scanners available right now costs around 7k to 8k Rupees but the over all cost of making this device(prototype) is around 3000/- and once it is converted
into mass production(making it as a full scale device) it can cost around 1500/-, this will be very cheap and efficient for the hostels to use.
